#HelloWorld module

= Introduction =

This is for yoiu to understand how to create a base module


= Download and install CI-CMS =

Download CI-CMS from here [http://code.google.com/p/ci-cms/downloads/list] and unzip it in your web directory.

  * Make writable the folders *./media* and *./cache* 
  * Go to the folder *application/config* and rename *database.dist.php*  to *database.php* then change it to fit your database configuration.
  * Rename config.dist.php to config.php and adjust it to your needs.
  * Go to http://yoursite/install and follow the installation steps

= Open your site =

Normally you can already open your site http://yoursite/ after installation. 

= Create Hello World module =

To create a HelloWorld module

Go to application/modules, and create a folder helloworld

Now, inside that, create these folders: controllers, views, models

Inside controllers create a file setup.xml and helloworld.php

The content of setup.xml is like this

*setup.xml*
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<module>
        <name>helloworld</name>
        <date>01/03/2010</date>
        <author>hery</author>
        <email>hery@serasera.org</email>
        <url>http://hery.serasera.org</url>
        <copyright>GNU/GPL License</copyright>
        <version>1.0.0</version>
        <description>HelloWorld module</description>
</module>
}}}

You can ajust the date, author, email, version, description and url. The name is the module's name, here it is helloworld so you may not change that.

The content of helloworld.php is like this

*helloworld.php*

{{{
<?php  if (!defined('BASEPATH')) exit('No direct script access allowed');

class Helloworld extends Controller {

        function Helloworld()
        {
           parent::Controller();
        }

        function index()
        {
           echo "Hello World!";
        }                

}
}}}

Now you can open

http://yoursite/helloworld

you should see

{{{
Hello world!
}}}

As you might see, all action is in the *helloworld.php* file inside *controllers*. So that is our conroller.

Now add another function inside the _Helloworld Class_ let us call that function "again".

{{{
        function again()
        {
           echo "Hello World Again!";
        }
}}}

The Helloworld controller becomes like this



{{{
(...)

class Helloworld extends Controller {

        function Helloworld()
        {
           parent::Controller();
        }

        function index()
        {
           echo "Hello World!";
        }                

        function again()
        {
           echo "Hello World Again!";
        }
}
}}}


Now, open in your site

http://yoursite/helloworld/again

You should see

{{{

Hello world again!
}}}

