#summary Module creation and installation
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

This CMS is fully modulable. You can install, activate, deactivate, uninstall module anytime.

Modules are in the module directory in 
{{{
application/modules/
}}}

= Core modules =

There are few core modules that cannot be uninstalled nor deactivated. They are
  * admin: Not listed in the module table but dealing with all backend administration
  * language: Module for managing language
  * member: Module to manage users
  * page: Page module for content and the homepage.

= Other modules =

All other modules are installable 
Here are the modules that are bundled with the release
  * blog (not yet ready)
  * contact (not yet ready)
  * ...

= Install a module =
After you download a module (BE SURE THAT YOU DOWNLOAD IT FROM A SECURE SOURCE) just put it inside the module directory. Go in Admin -> Module settings and normally the module will be listed and ready to be installed. When it is installed, you still need to activate it.

= Create a module =

If you want to create your own module, there are just few things to know

=== setup.xml installation file ===
You should have a setup.xml file in the folder of your module. It should have this format

{{{

<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<module>
	<name>guestbook</name>
	<date>20/06/2008</date>
	<author>hery</author>
	<email>hery@serasera.org</email>
	<url>http://hery.serasera.org</url>
	<copyright>GNU/GPL License</copyright>
	<version>1.0</version>
	<description>Guestbook module</description>
	<install>
		<query>CREATE TABLE....</query>
		<query>INSERT INTO...</query>
	</install>
	<uninstall>
		<query>DROP TABLE....</query>
	</uninstall>
</module>
}}}

*explanation*

  * *name:* name of the module
  * *date:* creation date
  * *author:*
  * *email:*
  * *url:*
  * *copyright:*
  * *version:*
  * *description:* Module description
  * *install:* Set of installation queries that will be applied into the database
  * *uninstall:* Set of uninstallation queries that will be applied during uninstallation